README.md, before:

Ringleader
==========

Introduction
------------

Ringleader is a Firefox addon which makes it easier to configure and use
your intercepting proxy of choice. It was originally written with [OWASP
ZAP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Zed_Attack_Proxy_Project) in mind
but, since we believe in choice at Mozilla, it's easy to make use of this with
Burp and probably other similar tools too.

Instructions
------------
1. Install the addon. I'll put it up on AMO soon but you'll always be able
   to get the latest version
   [here](https://github.com/mozmark/ringleader/blob/master/ringleader.xpi).
2. Browse to your tool's configuration page. If you have ZAP with the MiTM
   extension, you can do that by browsing to <http://localhost:8080/mitm>.
   You can set up any number of configurations for different tools and switch
   between them.
3. Use your intercepting proxy as you normally would. Ringleader comes
   with two useful [gcli](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2012/08/new-firefox-command-line-helps-you-develop-faster/)
   commands for security testing with ZAP; *mitm intercept* (for intercepting
   requests and responses) and *mitm record* (for use with the ZAP Zest
   extension).

You can switch between configurations (or clear them completely) using the
*mitm config* command.

Should you wish to revert your intercepting proxy configuration, you can do
this with the *mitm config clear* command. *mitm config remove* allows you to
remove a configuration completely.

Integrating your tools:
------------------------
I've designed this to be easy to integrate support in other tools; documentation is in progress [here](https://github.com/mozmark/ringleader/blob/master/doc/main.md). You can also look to see how the mitmconf ZAP addon works.

Commit message:

removed final references to MiTM, ringleader (other than URLs) and Proxy servers from code and docs

README.md, after:

FxPnH
=====

Introduction
------------

FxPnH is a Firefox addon which makes it possible to use Firefox with
Plug-n-Hack providers.

Instructions
------------
1. Install the addon. I'll put it up on AMO soon but you'll always be able
   to get the latest version
   [here](https://github.com/mozmark/ringleader/blob/master/fx_pnh.xpi).
2. Browse to your tool's configuration page. If you have ZAP with the
   Plug-n-Hack extension, you can do that by browsing to
   <http://localhost:8080/mitm>. You can set up any number of configurations
   for different tools and switch between them.
3. Use your PnH provider.

You can switch between configurations (or clear them completely) using the
*pnh config* command.

Should you wish to revert your intercepting proxy configuration, you can do
this with the *pnh config clear* command. *png config remove* allows you to
remove a configuration completely.

Integrating your tools:
------------------------
I've designed this to be easy to integrate support in other tools; documentation is in progress [here](https://github.com/mozmark/ringleader/blob/master/doc/main.md). You can also look to see how the Plug-n-Hack ZAP addon works.
