doc/service_commands.md, before:

Service Commands
================

Introduction
------------
Service Commands are a way of creating commands (e.g. GCLI commands) from a web service.

Commands are defined in a JSON descriptor (which looks a little like a GCLI [command definition](https://github.com/mozilla/gcli/blob/master/docs/writing-commands.md))

The Descriptor:
---------------
The descriptor is a JSON document containing a list of commands:
```json
{
  "commands":[]
}
```

A command is created for each item in the list. The first command should be empty with the exception of a description: This gives your users information on what your tool does. e.g:

if you load a command with the prefix 'test' and the following descriptor:

```json
{
  "commands":[{"description":"this is an example"}]
}
```

then typing 'test' at the command line will give you "this is an example command".

You probably want commands to be a bit more interesting than this, though. Here's a slightly more interesting example:

```json
{
  "commands":[
  {"description":"this is an example command for use as an example"},
  {
    "name": "command",
    "description": "do something",
    "returnType": "string",
    "execAction": {
      "url": "http://localhost:3000/do/something"
    }
  }
  ]
}
```

In this case, we have a sub-command called 'command' that the user can invoke with 'test command'. The command, when executed, results in a (GET) request being made to the url specified in execAction.

This still isn't very interesting, though. What if we want to be able to supply a parameter? And what if we want to actually see something from the response?  Let's continue by looking at a real world example; a command to create a new session in the ZAP intercepting proxy:

```json
{
  "name": "newsession",
  "description": "create a new session",
  "returnType": "string",
  "params": [{
    "name": "name",
    "type": "string",
    "description": "the name of the new session to create"
  }],
  "execAction":{
    "url":"http://localhost:8080/JSON/core/action/newSession/?zapapiformat=JSON&name=${$.args.name}",
    "expression":"$.Result"
  }
}
```

The first thing to notice here is that we are able to specify parameters. Here we have a single parameter called 'name'. String parameters can have any value but it's possible to limit the possible values (and even have default). This will be covered later on.

The second is that we're using the parameter in the url of the execAction - notice '${$.args.name}' on the end of the URL? This a JSONPath expression which will be evaluated against the command's data, the result of which will be substituted with the value the user enters as a command parameter. All you have to know about this for the time being is that $.args.PARAM gets the value of the 'PARAM' parameter. 

Finally, notice "expression" there in execAction - you can specify a JSONPath expression (the tool supports a safe subset of JSONPath) to extract data from the response to give to the user (as the output for the command).


More on Parameters:
-------------------

You can limit the possible values for a parameter by using providing an object (rather than 'string') to as the type. For example:

```json
{
  "name": "param1",
  "type": {
    "name": "selection",
    "data": ["name1", "name2", "name3"]
  },
  "description": "you may only name it name1, name2 or name3",
  "defaultValue": "name2"
}
```
Here we have a parameter called param1 which can take the values name1, name2 or name3 - if the user does not specify a value it will default to name2.

Data in Commands:
-----------------

In most places where it's possible to extract data for command actions (see Tool Operations) or substitution into an URL (e.g. command execAction URLs) you can provide some kind of expression (see use of $.args.name above). This expression is evaluated against a command object. Available attributes depend on the point at which the expression is evaluated. In particular:
* args will not be available until the command is issued
* response will not be available until the command is issues and execAction has succeeded

Contextual data in Commands:
----------------------------

Sometimes you might want to make use of certain contextual data in your commands. In these cases, it will be possible to get certain contextual data. For example, the 'tab' attribute of the command data object contains information pertaining to the current tab, with 'tab.key' being an identifier that is unique for a tab. This can be useful when, for instance, you want to identify a specific tab in your service.

Consider the following command:

```
{
  "name":"something",
  "description":"set something",
  "returnType":"string",
  "params":[
    {
      "name":"state",
      "type": {"name":"selection", "data":["on","off"]},
      "description": "should something be enabled?",
      "defaultValue": "on"
    }
  ],
  "execAction":{
    "url":"http://localhost/something?tab=${$.tab.key}&state=${$.args.state}"
  }
}
```

Here the tab request parameter will be unique per tab when the command is issued by the user.

Other contextual data include:
* tab.URL - the URL of the top level document in the current tab represented as a string
* tab.location - the location object pertaining to the current top level document in the tab (useful for getting protocol, port and host information, for example)

Tool operations:
----------------

The Service Commands functionality used by this tool supports [callback data](https://github.com/mozmark/ServiceTest/blob/master/doc/service_commands.md#callback-data) being sent back to the embedding tool. PNH makes use of this by providing operations that can be invoked from your commands via callbackData.

This is best illustrated with an example:

```json
{
  "name": "brk",
  "description": "create a new session",
  "returnType": "string",
  "params": [{
    "name": "state",
    "type": {
      "name": "selection",
      "data": ["on", "off"]
    },
    "description": "break on request",
    "defaultValue": "on"
  }, {
    "name": "scope",
    "type": {
      "name": "selection",
      "data": ["tab", "global"]
    },
    "description": "local to tab or global",
    "defaultValue": "tab"
  }],
  "execAction": {
    "expression": "$.Result",
    "callbackData": {
      "conditionalCommands": {
        "expression": "$.args.state",
        "states": {
          "on": [{
            "command": "addToHeader",
            "params": {
              "headerName": "X-Security-Proxy",
              "value": "intercept",
              "scope": {
                "type": "expression",
                "expression": "$.args.scope",
                "extract": true
              }
            }
          }],
          "off": [{
            "command": "removeFromHeader",
            "params": {
              "headerName": "X-Security-Proxy",
              "value": "intercept",
              "scope": {
                "type": "expression",
                "expression": "$.args.scope",
                "extract": true
              }
            }
          }]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is a description for the 'brk' command which causes ZAP (with the mitm-config addon) to break on request / response.  callbackData has an attribute called "conditionalCommands" which specifies an expression and a map of states to lists of commands. If the result the expression matches a state, the associated commands will be invoked.

At present only the 'addToHeader' and 'removeFromHeader' commands are supported. This list will be expanded in time.

Types:
------

Ringleader supports the substitution of certain objects with data extracted from another. This can be useful when data is expected in a particular format but a service has already been defined to return something else.

At present, 2 types are supported; expression types and template types:

```json
{
  "someThing":{"type":"expression","expression":"$.tab.key","extract":true},
  "someOtherThing":{"type":"template","template":"key=${$.tab.key}"}
}
```

In the above example, someThing is set the the result of evaluating the expression '$.tab.key' expression on the command's data; if the tab key is 4, the resulting value would be 4. someOtherThing is similar, the the result is substituted into the template string; e.g. 'key=4'.

Commit message:

added origin checks for dataAction, changed docs accordingly

doc/service_commands.md, after:

Service Commands
================

Introduction
------------
Service Commands are a way of creating commands (e.g. GCLI commands) from a web service.

Commands are defined in a JSON descriptor (which looks a little like a GCLI [command definition](https://github.com/mozilla/gcli/blob/master/docs/writing-commands.md))

Restrictions:
-------------

Ringleader will not, by default, allow descriptors (or the services they describe) to reside on different origins. If you need to relax this requirement (e.g. for testing) you can set the ringleader.check.origin preference in firefox. Set the pref to 'noport' if you wish to relax the port check or 'off' if you want to turn off origin checks for descriptors and services completely. Please do not require this pref to be set for your service to work; it is for testing only.

The Descriptor:
---------------
The descriptor is a JSON document containing a list of commands:
```json
{
  "commands":[]
}
```

A command is created for each item in the list. The first command should be empty with the exception of a description: This gives your users information on what your tool does. e.g:

if you load a command with the prefix 'test' and the following descriptor:

```json
{
  "commands":[{"description":"this is an example"}]
}
```

then typing 'test' at the command line will give you "this is an example command".

You probably want commands to be a bit more interesting than this, though. Here's a slightly more interesting example:

```json
{
  "commands":[
  {"description":"this is an example command for use as an example"},
  {
    "name": "command",
    "description": "do something",
    "returnType": "string",
    "execAction": {
      "url": "http://localhost:3000/do/something"
    }
  }
  ]
}
```

In this case, we have a sub-command called 'command' that the user can invoke with 'test command'. The command, when executed, results in a (GET) request being made to the url specified in execAction.

This still isn't very interesting, though. What if we want to be able to supply a parameter? And what if we want to actually see something from the response?  Let's continue by looking at a real world example; a command to create a new session in the ZAP intercepting proxy:

```json
{
  "name": "newsession",
  "description": "create a new session",
  "returnType": "string",
  "params": [{
    "name": "name",
    "type": "string",
    "description": "the name of the new session to create"
  }],
  "execAction":{
    "url":"http://localhost:8080/JSON/core/action/newSession/?zapapiformat=JSON&name=${$.args.name}",
    "expression":"$.Result"
  }
}
```

The first thing to notice here is that we are able to specify parameters. Here we have a single parameter called 'name'. String parameters can have any value but it's possible to limit the possible values (and even have default). This will be covered later on.

The second is that we're using the parameter in the url of the execAction - notice '${$.args.name}' on the end of the URL? This a JSONPath expression which will be evaluated against the command's data, the result of which will be substituted with the value the user enters as a command parameter. All you have to know about this for the time being is that $.args.PARAM gets the value of the 'PARAM' parameter. 

Finally, notice "expression" there in execAction - you can specify a JSONPath expression (the tool supports a safe subset of JSONPath) to extract data from the response to give to the user (as the output for the command).


More on Parameters:
-------------------

You can limit the possible values for a parameter by using providing an object (rather than 'string') to as the type. For example:

```json
{
  "name": "param1",
  "type": {
    "name": "selection",
    "data": ["name1", "name2", "name3"]
  },
  "description": "you may only name it name1, name2 or name3",
  "defaultValue": "name2"
}
```
Here we have a parameter called param1 which can take the values name1, name2 or name3 - if the user does not specify a value it will default to name2.

Data in Commands:
-----------------

In most places where it's possible to extract data for command actions (see Tool Operations) or substitution into an URL (e.g. command execAction URLs) you can provide some kind of expression (see use of $.args.name above). This expression is evaluated against a command object. Available attributes depend on the point at which the expression is evaluated. In particular:
* args will not be available until the command is issued
* response will not be available until the command is issues and execAction has succeeded

Contextual data in Commands:
----------------------------

Sometimes you might want to make use of certain contextual data in your commands. In these cases, it will be possible to get certain contextual data. For example, the 'tab' attribute of the command data object contains information pertaining to the current tab, with 'tab.key' being an identifier that is unique for a tab. This can be useful when, for instance, you want to identify a specific tab in your service.

Consider the following command:

```
{
  "name":"something",
  "description":"set something",
  "returnType":"string",
  "params":[
    {
      "name":"state",
      "type": {"name":"selection", "data":["on","off"]},
      "description": "should something be enabled?",
      "defaultValue": "on"
    }
  ],
  "execAction":{
    "url":"http://localhost/something?tab=${$.tab.key}&state=${$.args.state}"
  }
}
```

Here the tab request parameter will be unique per tab when the command is issued by the user.

Other contextual data include:
* tab.URL - the URL of the top level document in the current tab represented as a string
* tab.location - the location object pertaining to the current top level document in the tab (useful for getting protocol, port and host information, for example)

Tool operations:
----------------

The Service Commands functionality used by this tool supports [callback data](https://github.com/mozmark/ServiceTest/blob/master/doc/service_commands.md#callback-data) being sent back to the embedding tool. PNH makes use of this by providing operations that can be invoked from your commands via callbackData.

This is best illustrated with an example:

```json
{
  "name": "brk",
  "description": "create a new session",
  "returnType": "string",
  "params": [{
    "name": "state",
    "type": {
      "name": "selection",
      "data": ["on", "off"]
    },
    "description": "break on request",
    "defaultValue": "on"
  }, {
    "name": "scope",
    "type": {
      "name": "selection",
      "data": ["tab", "global"]
    },
    "description": "local to tab or global",
    "defaultValue": "tab"
  }],
  "execAction": {
    "expression": "$.Result",
    "callbackData": {
      "conditionalCommands": {
        "expression": "$.args.state",
        "states": {
          "on": [{
            "command": "addToHeader",
            "params": {
              "headerName": "X-Security-Proxy",
              "value": "intercept",
              "scope": {
                "type": "expression",
                "expression": "$.args.scope",
                "extract": true
              }
            }
          }],
          "off": [{
            "command": "removeFromHeader",
            "params": {
              "headerName": "X-Security-Proxy",
              "value": "intercept",
              "scope": {
                "type": "expression",
                "expression": "$.args.scope",
                "extract": true
              }
            }
          }]
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

This is a description for the 'brk' command which causes ZAP (with the mitm-config addon) to break on request / response.  callbackData has an attribute called "conditionalCommands" which specifies an expression and a map of states to lists of commands. If the result the expression matches a state, the associated commands will be invoked.

At present only the 'addToHeader' and 'removeFromHeader' commands are supported. This list will be expanded in time.

Types:
------

Ringleader supports the substitution of certain objects with data extracted from another. This can be useful when data is expected in a particular format but a service has already been defined to return something else.

At present, 2 types are supported; expression types and template types:

```json
{
  "someThing":{"type":"expression","expression":"$.tab.key","extract":true},
  "someOtherThing":{"type":"template","template":"key=${$.tab.key}"}
}
```

In the above example, someThing is set the the result of evaluating the expression '$.tab.key' expression on the command's data; if the tab key is 4, the resulting value would be 4. someOtherThing is similar, the the result is substituted into the template string; e.g. 'key=4'.
